yomikun/gender/TODO.md, before:

### Notes

  Make a simple gender model from stuff like 
   - kana
   - last kana
   - kanji
   - last kanji

  https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E9%95%B7%E6%BE%A4%E5%92%8C%E6%98%8E was marked
  as female, so maybe too many FPs. 長澤和明
  otoh we only got 1 fem result so we can determine FP easily here.

  Script works, we just need to make a judgement.

 * wikidata/wikipedia data is heavily male biased, about 75% male
   on average (probably due to politicans + sports + historical
   figures).

   For example, makoto is 85% male in wiki data. akira is ~99% male.

   However at the kanji level, individual kanji show much stronger
   rates of male/female exclusivity, e.g. 誠 vs. 真琴
   Also, the wiki page says makoto is gender-neutral.
   [Interestingly 真恋人 is missing from namegen, but we have it!]

 * try extracting gender info from japanese wikipedia again. e.g. extract
   女 (exclusing 帰国子女). This would help to identify more female names,
   as women are marked more often than men.
     - done: 29,356 female; 8,642 male (out of 218,418 entries)

### JA wikipedia pages

　As a start: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:日本語の女性名 and equivalent (and 日本語の姓)
  Each page has some information: 
    日本の女性名。現代では主に「あきこ」、まれに「めいこ」と読むが、平安時代には「あきらけいこ」と読まれた。
    日本人の人名。主に女性名に使われる。
    敦子（あつこ）は、日本の女性名。

The EN wikipedia has similar pages, e.g. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirotomo which mark the
gender clearly and show common readings.

Commit message:

move code and random notes out of gender/__init__.py

yomikun/gender/TODO.md, after:

## Objectives

To be able to answer questions like:

 * given a kanji or kana given name, what is the likely gender?
 * what are the most unisex names?
 * what kanji versions of a particular kana name are most often
   associated with men or women?

For improving our data:

 * what names have zero or very few gender-tagged results?

## Ideas

 - Try to remove FPs via person merging
   房之介 appears in wikidata as female (incorrectly) and male in
   wikipedia_en, _ja (correctly).

### JA wikipedia pages

We could use the info in JA wikipedia pages to populate a gender dictionary. This could be
semi-automated.

As a start: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:日本語の女性名 and equivalent (and 日本語の姓)
Each page has some information: 
  日本の女性名。現代では主に「あきこ」、まれに「めいこ」と読むが、平安時代には「あきらけいこ」と読まれた。
  日本人の人名。主に女性名に使われる。
  敦子（あつこ）は、日本の女性名。
