README.md, before:

### yomikun-database

Scripts and modules to generate the name database used by Yomikun.
This includes:

- parsing Wikipedia and other dictionary data
- generating lists such as top 1000 lists
- assembling the data into an SQLite file

## Prerequisites

Code: Python 3.9, the modules in `requirements.txt`.

Makefile: a Linux-compatible environment with `moreutils` (`parallel` tool),
`pzcat` (to be added). For fast conversion of MediaWiki XML dumps to JSON,
Perl and the `MediaWiki::DumpFile::FastPages` module is used. If you don't
want to use Perl, you can do the conversion yourself quite easily.

## Directory structure

- data: raw data used by other scripts
- jsonl: prepared name data generated by scripts/data sources for assembly
  into the final database, in JSONL format
- scripts: command line scripts
- tests: global unit tests (other tests are inside each .py file)
- tmp: tmp directory for makefile (sorts etc)
- yomikun: python code
 - daijisen - tools for reading Daijisen's epwing data
 - gender - name to gender guesser
 - jmnedict - related to JMnedict parsing
 - loader - assembles the final database
 - models - general-purpose classes used by everything (NameData is the most important)
 - utils - code used by everything (e.g. romaji to kana conversion, regexes)
 - wikipedia\_en - code to parse EN (English) wikipedia
 - wikipedia\_ja - code to parse JA (Japanese) wikipedia
 - koujien.py - tools for reading Koujien's epwing data
 - pdd.py - tools for reading the Public Domain Dictionary (PDD)

## Building the database

Run `make`.

## Running tests

Run `make test`.

Commit message:

Update README.md with JSONL information

README.md, after:

### yomikun-database

Scripts and modules to generate the name database used by Yomikun.
This includes:

- parsing Wikipedia and other dictionary data
- generating lists such as top 1000 lists
- assembling the data into an SQLite file

## Prerequisites

Code: Python 3.9, the modules in `requirements.txt`.

Makefile: a Linux-compatible environment with `moreutils` (`parallel` tool),
`pzcat` (to be added). For fast conversion of MediaWiki XML dumps to JSON,
Perl and the `MediaWiki::DumpFile::FastPages` module is used. If you don't
want to use Perl, you can do the conversion yourself quite easily.

## Directory structure

- data: raw data used by other scripts
- jsonl: prepared name data generated by scripts/data sources for assembly
  into the final database, in JSONL format
- db: final output files
- scripts: command line scripts
- tests: global unit tests (other tests are inside each .py file)
- tmp: tmp directory for makefile (sorts etc)
- yomikun: python code
 - daijisen - tools for reading Daijisen's epwing data
 - gender - name to gender guesser
 - jmnedict - related to JMnedict parsing
 - loader - assembles the final database
 - models - general-purpose classes used by everything (NameData is the most important)
 - utils - code used by everything (e.g. romaji to kana conversion, regexes)
 - wikipedia\_en - code to parse EN (English) wikipedia
 - wikipedia\_ja - code to parse JA (Japanese) wikipedia
 - koujien.py - tools for reading Koujien's epwing data
 - pdd.py - tools for reading the Public Domain Dictionary (PDD)

## JSONL (NameData)

Name information is collected in NameData python objects and serialised to and from JSONL
(JSON Lines) format. This is simply JSON except the file contains one JSON object per line,
and the object is serialised to only occupy one line (i.e. compact format).

There are several advantages to this format:
 1) As it is line based it is easy to split or aggregate the files, for example using `head`
    to test a script with a small number of inputs, or `parallel --pipe` to parallelise a
    script automatically, or `cat` to join inputs together.
 2) It can be filtered or queried using the `jq` tool, or in a pinch, `grep`.
 3) It is human readable

## Building the database

Run `make`.

## Running tests

Run `make test`.
